---
layout: post
title: "How Practices Influence Community"
date: 2019-05-08T16:16:00+11:00
tags: [dancing,software-development,culture,community]
---

    Hello, I'm Brett; Software Developer by day, Dancer by night.

I've started off presentations with lines like this more times that I care to admit. Talking at conferences, there's
almost always an obligatory "Who am I"/"Why am I qualified to talk about this" slide/section. This topic, on culture,
community, practices and how they all interact is something that I've been thinking about for a while. I don't have a
degree in psychology or social sciences, I haven't run any tests, and I've got a relatively low sample size. I don't
even have well-quantified, numerical data. I've spent 5-6 years in various dancing circles/communities (using this last
word loosely in some cases), and probably about twice as long in various businesses related to software development. I
have absorbed a large history of experience with _living_ in different cultures/communities, applying practices (or
not), and observing affects of practices on culture/communities in general.

In software development, especially in environments that practice tenets of "Agile" or "Extreme Programming", we have a
particular practice called "pairing". When pairing, you work with another person - often another developer - and work on
a piece of work together, ideally using the same keyboard/mouse/screen. Pairing enables a kind of instantaneous peer
review, ensures that if one person doesn't catch an error then the other one should. It's also great for sharing
knowledge, aides problem solving, and generally improves relationships between two people.

In partner dance, we have the same concept, except it's just assumed - it's a partner dance, so you must be dancing with
a partner, right? It's just called dancing. It shares much in common with the software development practice; You're
working (though dancing seldom feels like work) with someone, and instead of a keyboard, mouse and screen, you're
interfacing directly with the other person, typically with some kind of hand/limb-based contact. If you've never danced
with your partner before, you can quickly assess the compatibility of their dancing to yours (not be confused with
"level" of dancing), and knowledge sharing, problem solving and relationship building all come from occupying the same
space and communicating (through voice, dance or facial expressions) at the same time.

This all sounds good. In fact, this all sounds... normal. Expected, in fact?

Another practice in software development is "pair rotation" - quite simply, frequently changing who you are pairing
with. In dancing, this is similar to finding a new dance partner on the social dance floor at the start of the next song
OR - in some software development environments/dance formats - partway during a song. In dance communities for
"social-first" dance styles, this is super common. We rotate partners frequently during classes, workshops, and many
people challenge themselves to getting a dance with as many people they can during social time.

This is also, generally speaking, good. You knowledge share, problem solve, and build relationships (or at least a
rapport) with many developers/dancers, and this is effectively like a kind of social lubrication; communication builds
community; they share half a word, after all!

Where we start to get into murky waters is when competition becomes involved.

Some styles of partner dance, in competition, uphold the ability to dance well with many different people as being,
shall we say, "the most important". They do this my only measuring progress on this alone; sure, you receive accolades
and prizes for dancing well with just one person (against other strong partnerships), but you will only gain rank 
(usually received as points) by being in the top X many people to be really good at dancing with many other dancers.

Meanwhile, other styles of partner dance won't hold this position at all; You can gain rank for dancing well with just
one person, as well as gaining rank for dancing well with many. And why not? This ability to dance well with one
specific other person is venerable in it's own right; you can receive prizes, why not have this ability reflected by
change rank as well? As a matter of course, it's much easier to train with just one person, and as a partnership you can
theoretically reach higher heights by knowing each others intricacies, building new movements, combos, and a new dance
language between each other.

But alas, there is a dark-side when this single-partner focus becomes the emphasis of the dance competition.

For software development, there isn't really "competition" in the sense of direct, head-to-head, who-is-better-than-whom
 competing, either between individuals or pairs. Obviously there can be competition at the business level, aiming to get
 a product out to market before a competitor does, and this is when these values are tested. Does a software development
 team, under extra pressure to get a product out to market, stick to the virtues of pair rotation, and even pairing, or
 does it let those practices fall apart, banking on the work of highly-compatible, high-output pairs (or even
 individuals) to get "over the line"?
 
Dance communities are quite often open, welcoming groups. Of course, individuals can make or break the experience for
others, but more generally, social dancing communities want more people to dance with, or for more people to experience
the wonderful world of dancing. This is especially true of communities that favour the ability to dance with many people
over the ability of an individual to dance with one specific person.

Social dance communities that favour and reward partnerships, I have observed, can tend towards being more insular.

To take a reductive view; why would a dance partnership hone their ability to dance with a plethora of people, when they
could instead hone their ability to dance well together, and potentially progress faster as a pair? They train together,
they build their repertoire together. It benefits them less to attend a class and learn techniques in a group, when they
could work together and learn techniques at a faster pace, because they're on the same level and are speaking the same
dance-language dialect as one another.

When your partnership dancing is rewarded and you gain rank together, this is a no-brainer. A partnership could go
unseen by others for months, even their local studio/company, and show up at competition and wow everyone, including the
locals, their "peers".